
# Preface
There is a canard that every textbook of algebraic topology either ends with the definition of the Klein bottle or is a personal communication to J.H.C. Whitehead. Of course, this is false , as a glance at the books of Hilton and Wylie,Maunder, Munkres and Schubert reveals. Still,the canard does reflect some truth. Too often one finds too munch generality and too little attention to details.



There are two types of obstacle for the student learning algebraic topology. The first formidable array of new techniques(e.g.,most students know very little homological algebra); the second obstacle is that their geometric or analytic origins have been obscured. I have tried to overcome these barriers .In the first instance,new definitions are introduced only when needed(e.g.,homology with coefficients and cohomology are deferred until after the Eilenberg-Steenord axioms have been verified for the three homology theories we treat-singular,simplicial,and cellular).Moreover,many exercises are given to help the reader assimilate material. In the second instance, important definitions are often accompanied by an informal discussion describing their origins(e.g., winding numbers are discussed before computing $\pi_1(S^1)$, Green's theorem occurs before defining homology, and differential forms appear before introducing homology).



We assume that the reader has had a first course in point-set topology,but we do discuss quotient spaces, path connectedness and function spaces. We assume that the reader is familiar with groups and rings, but we do discuss free abelian groups, free groups, exact sequences, tensor products(always over $\Z$), categories, and functors.



I am an algebraist with an interest in topology. The basic outline of this book corresponds to the syllabus of a fist-year's course in algebraic topology designed by geometers and topologists at the University of Illinois, Urbana;(此后均为废话)